>> Scott Moss: So, what we're gonna do,
is we're just gonna create some middleware
here though and see just how familiar it
is to what we've already done so far.
So far,
we've created these small routes and
we have these call back functions
here what I've called controllers
because they're basically the last
function that needs to run on this route.
Now, we're just gonna
create some middleware.
And to do that, it's the exact
same syntax as the controllers.
There just functions that take
a request and a response.
And then they run some action.
So I'm just gonna make
a middleware here and
I'm gonna call it myLog or
just call it log.
So it's gonna take a request.
It's gonna take a response and
is just going to log, logging.
So, down here these controllers we
have the ability to do rest.send,
rest.send, that's what we have been doing.
That's gonna end a request and that's
gonna send back a response to the client.
Well like I said the middleware, the
intent is to not do that, although we can.
I don't wanna end the request and
send back a response to the client,
I wanna continue moving forward.
So that's where that third argument
comes in that we haven't used.
We just call it next.
But it's basically just
a function that when called,
executes the next middleware that's
after it, that's all it's gonna do.
So this is where Express ties
the middleware together.
So by calling the next function,
I'm basically saying, okay,
I'm done here, go to the next one.
Whoever's next, because this log
function doesn't know who's next,
doesn't know who's registered after it.
But whatever is next in
the stack Run that function and
that can be another middleware.
It could also be a controller.
It could be anything.
But it doesn't really
matter cuz it doesn't know.
So I'm just gonna call next like this.
If you call next with an argument, the
argument is gonna be treated like an error
and we'll talk about that when
we get to error handling.
Normally, just call it
next with no arguments.
And unless you have an error
that you wanna pass along and
don't wanna handle in this middleware.
So for instance,
this was an authentication middleware.
And there's an authentication error,
you could just, in the request right here,
what the rest.send or
rest.status whatever you wanna do.
Or you could pass that
error along with next.
And then later on in your application have
an error handler kinda like catches it and
deals with it there.
So it's up to you.
But for now,
we're just not gonna pass anything.
And then, all we gotta do is just
add the log to our route definition.
So you can see, I just squeeze
it in here after this route.
And that just is basically letting
me run this middleware function,
before this controller runs.
That's one way I could do it.
The benefits of doing it this way is
that it's only gonna run for this route.
If I wanted this log functions to run for
the entire server,
I could use an app dot use log.
Now it's gonna run for everything.
Very similar to what we have up here.
Another way I could do it is I could say
I want to pass an array of middleware.
There's if I had log here like three times
or other middleware, I could do that as
well and that's gonna run all of these in
order before it executes the controller.
So there's like a lot of ways you
can actually register middleware and
execute it those are just three.
There's other ways you can mount it them
at different paths you can mount them at
different sub-routers when we
get to sub-routers there's
a lot different configurations
with middleware.
But at the end of the day a middleware
function is basically the same thing as
a controller function they have the exact
same syntax the exact same capabilities.
The only difference is
that they are intent.
The middleware is intent is
to not respond is to mutate,
whatever and pass on in
a controllers intent is to respond.
That's it.
But they can both do either.
But at the end of the day if you don't
respond user services are gonna hang,
this is gonna hang.
Your request is gonna hang
forever until it times out.
So, you have to respond eventually.
>> Speaker 2: Is this
like a chain where you
are processing the incoming requests and
then you can process the response from-
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, that's exactly right.
So let me run this, so you can see.
I'll just put one log here and
then we'll start the server.
Looks like it already restarted.
I'll go over to Insomnia.
Which request did I put that on, get?
Okay, so for
the get one we'll just run it.
Go over to the logs you
can see it says logging.
So this one logs first.
All right, if I put that array back and
add it a few more times.
We should see it three times now.
Run this and
you see I got log in three times.
Right so it is changed.
It's doing that in sequential order.
But it's not parallel.
It's not running them
all at the same time.
In sequential order.
And it's just gonna keep going.
They could also be asynchronous.
There's nothing stopping you from doing
anything async in here if you want to.
It's just, whenever you call next that's
when it's gonna go to the next one, or
if it errors out, or if you respond,
whichever one comes first.
That's what it's gonna do.
>> Speaker 2: So
they won't run in sequence?
>> Scott Moss: No, they run in sequence,
but not in parallel.
Right, so the won't run at the same time.
They'll run sequentially.
Yeah.
>> Scott Moss: So even if these were async
they still will not run at the same time.
They would wait to go to the next one.
It literally does not move on
unless it either called next,
there's an error that was not handled or
thrown or you respond explicitly.
That's the only way it's gonna progress.
>> Speaker 2: So if you threw
an error before you called next
then your application blows up?
>> Scott Moss: Yep, right,
in this example yes it will.
So let's try it out.
So if I throw and error here.
>> Scott Moss: And I do this boom.
It [LAUGH] definitely blew up yeah.
So it will definitely blow up here.
But if I were to pass this error over to
next like this, and
I'm not handling the error anywhere,
then you might still get some
unexpected side effects.
Yeah, I still get the error here.
The only difference is instead
of the error blowing up here,
it blew up inside of express so
whenever it's, I do have an error and
expressed through it but
I didn't handle it somewhere else.
When you pass an error to next
you're basically telling express,
I'm gonna handle this
later somewhere else.
It's like you're gonna have
like a catch all error here and
went somewhere else, but in this example
we don't so it kinda just died anyway.
Any other questions?
>> Speaker 2: So there'd be no way
to pass the error to your route?
>> Scott Moss: Pass an error,
give me an example.
>> Speaker 2: Like if your
middleware had an error and
you wanted your route
app.get/data to handle it.
I know, I'm just thinking out loud kinda.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, so, sounds like we're
describing it you want the app.get to be
able to handle something
about the software.
So if you did want to do that, so
basically how do you
communicate between middleware?
How do you have one middleware communicate
to some other middleware, right?
So if you're going to
pass some data along.
>> Speaker 2: If it's even a good idea,
I don't know.
>> Scott Moss: It is a good idea.
I would say in that case, as far as like
letting a controller handle an error,
probably not a good idea,
you normally just, and we'll get to it,
you normally register an error handler
controller at the end of everything that
handles all errors and
let the controllers just do there job.
But if you did wanna just pass data along
to some other middleware controller,
which is a good idea and which we will be
doing, then from there normally what you
would do is you just attach
it to the request object.
So I can just say req.mydata =
'hello,' and then I'll call next.
And then down here below
I'll just send that back.
>> Scott Moss: I'm gonna say req.myData.
And then now if I run this,
you see I get data hello.
Pretty simple, but it's really powerful.
It's life-changing, really amazing.
A super flexible way to write code.